# CDF Interoperability SIG Meetings

## Quick links

- [Logistics](#logistics)
- [Meeting Recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2KXbZ9-EY9QxICOnONBFPn_cYfJ8BsaG)
- [Agenda and Notes](#agenda-and-notes)
  - [2020-07-09 Meeting](#july-9-2020)
  - [2020-06-25 Meeting](#june-25-2020)
  - [2020-06-11 Meeting](#june-11-2020)
  - [2020-05-28 Meeting](#may-28-2020)
  - [2020-05-14 Meeting](#may-14-2020)
  - [2020-04-30 Meeting](#april-30-2020)
  - [2020-04-16 Meeting](#april-16-2020)
  - [2020-04-02 Meeting](#april-2-2020)
  - [2020-03-19 Meeting](#march-19-2020)
  - [2020-03-05 Meeting](#march-5-2020)
  - [2020-02-20 Meeting](#february-20-2020)
  - [2020-02-06 Meeting](#february-6-2020)
  - [2020-01-23 Meeting](#january-23-2020)

## Logistics

* Meeting notes on HackMD.io: https://hackmd.io/@cdf-sig-interoperability/ry3TTB5DL
* When: every even week on Thursdays at 15:00UTC (*See your timezone [here](https://time.is/1500_in_UTC)*).
* Zoom Bridge: https://zoom.us/j/827082528
* Zoom International dial-in numbers: https://zoom.us/zoomconference
* Meeting Recordings: [CDF Youtube Channel SIG Interoperability Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2KXbZ9-EY9QxICOnONBFPn_cYfJ8BsaG)
* CDF Public Calendar: [here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_mhf0kmgedn67ihni8r129avp24%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FLos_Angeles)
* Presentation Schedule: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Owg_I52WEXzqF8g_lX6OTdwbHkH4Z2-7TBA7eCSVMqY/edit

## Agenda and Notes

Meeting agenda and notes are kept on [HackMD.io](https://hackmd.io/@cdf-sig-interoperability/ry3TTB5DL) where everyone can add new topics to the agenda for upcoming meetings or take notes during the meetings. Please click edit button to edit the document.

### July 9, 2020

#### Participants
  - Ramin Akhbari (eBay)
  - Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)
  - Emil B√§ckmark (Ericsson)
  - James Rawlings (CloudBees)
  - Max K√∂rb√§cher (Storm Reply)
  - Kara de la Marck (CloudBees)
  - Thanh Ha (Lumina Networks)
  - Marky Jackson (OpsMX)
  - Jeremy Stanley (Zuul community)
  - Oleg Nenashev (CloudBees)
  - Mark Waite (CloudBees)
  - Tracy Miranda (CloudBees)

#### Agenda and Notes
  - Action Item Review, All
  - [SIG Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QSzcV-rl3XwkNh4_5a_0YCugF5gprtBR-xRlzuEJ-NA/edit#heading=h.eqpoxxy8gmzz) in the repo, All
    - FD: A [pull request](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/pull/40) is opened, moving the roadmap from Google Docs to SIG repository on GitHub.
    - FD: Few updates have been made to the roadmap while moving it to the repo such as adding the presentations that were made to the SIG.
    - FD: In addition to the updates, the new work we started doing such as identifying Focus Areas and creating workstreams is also included in the document.
    - FD: Contributors are also listed on the document.
    - FD: PR will be kept open few more days to give people chance to review it and provide comments.
    - FD: Once we finalize the work with the roadmap, we could ask CDF to help us to make this work visible via a blog post/article.
    - MJ: I can help with that.
  - SIG Governance, [workstream setup](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/blob/master/docs/workstream-governance.md), Kara, All
    - KM: The governance document for the workstreams is [now available in the repo](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/blob/master/docs/workstream-governance.md).
    - KM: People who are interested in working on a specific topic are encouraged to create a PR and socialize the idea by presenting it during upcoming SIG meetings to collaborate with others.
    - MK: WG Robots could be a workstream.
  - [Jenkinsfile Runner](https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkinsfile-runner) Presentation, Oleg Nenashev, CloudBees

#### Action Items
  - ~~Fatih to move Roadmap to GitHub via a PR: https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/pull/40~~
  - ~~Tracy to take SIG Roadmap document into read-only/comment-only mode~~
  - ~~Kara to update workstream governance with the process for creation of new workstreams: https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/pull/39~~
  - **In progress**: Fatih to talk to Jacque to update the invitation with HackMD link: [Issue created in CDF backlog](https://github.com/cdfoundation/foundation/issues/201).
  - **In progress**: Marky to check with Jacque the possibility of storing none-meeting recordings on Youtube: [Issue created in CDF backlog](https://github.com/cdfoundation/foundation/issues/202).

#### Meeting Recording
  - \<addme\>

### June 25, 2020

#### Participants
  - Kara de la Marck
  - Marky Jackson (OpsMX)
  - Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)
  - Ravi Lachhman (Harness)
  - James Rawlings (CloudBees / Jenkins X)
  - Emil B√§ckmark (Ericsson)
  - Andreas Grimmer (Dynatrace)
  - Gareth Evans (Jenkins X)
  - Venkata Shreyas Kabekkodu (Fidelity)

#### Agenda and Notes
  - Action Item Review, All
  - Way forward with [SIG Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QSzcV-rl3XwkNh4_5a_0YCugF5gprtBR-xRlzuEJ-NA/edit#heading=h.eqpoxxy8gmzz), All
    - EB: Added Argo Rollouts under Knowledge Transfer in CI/CD tools in the roadmap.
    - EB: Added example CI and DevOps/Continuous Feedback activities into the roadmap and it is open for feedback.
    - FD: The roadmap has been around and it may make senseto move the document to GitHub into SIG repository so any further updates and conversations on the roadmap could happen in the repository.
    - No objection has been rasied by the participants of the meeting .
  - SIG Governance, [workstream setup](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/blob/master/docs/workstream-governance.md), Kara, All
    - KM: First version of the workstream setup has been made available in the repo.
    - RL: We self-organized and mimicking the SIG meeting setup.
    - FD: The idea with the workstream setup is to help people to work on specific topics without hinderance or loss of focus due to broader list of topics discussed within the SIG.
    - RL: We started very recently and we don't have much to say at the moment.
    - EB: The workstream meeting notes are kept within [SIG repository](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/tree/master/workstreams/events_in_cicd).
    - KM: Sharing the findings, learnings, outcomes from the workstream with the broader SIG would be very valuable. Cadence is up to the workstreams.
    - EB: The initial thought within the workstream was that we were aligned in the thinking of some fundamental aspects like "what is event".
    - EB: We found out that there are differences in thinking so we are working on that.
    - AG: The first meeting was about collecting material and we are at the starting point.
    - KM: How people can come up with new workstream ideas?
    - FD: Anyone should be able to propose new workstreams by simply creating an issue in the repo and adding a topic to the SIG meeting so the workstream idea can be publicized/socialized with the broader community.
    - KM: I have an idea about a workstream on Tekton Catalog.
    - JR: We want to have good interop story and good citizens while sharing our learnings.
  - Topics for CDF Project Collaboration Working Summit, Fatih, All
    - Potential topics are: Reusable Libraries (go-scm, etc), Events in CI/CD (Tekton, Keptn, Eiffel)
    - Cross project demos? 
    - MJ: Might be good to have discussions on some of the project interoperability work that is being done.
    - Examples include: Jenkins + Spinnaker, Jenkins X and Tekton, etc
    - Show work that is being done and use this work as examples of interoperability and sharing practices.
    - JR: Great if we could develop specifications or open standards 
    - FD: Question on date, as many could be on summer holidays.
    - MJ: That is being considered, more info coming on mail list
    - MJ: the format will be similar to unconference -- individuals can propose topics in slack in advance (with voting). The agenda for the day will be based on the advance voting.
  - Upcoming Presentations, Kara
    - [Schedule is updated](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Owg_I52WEXzqF8g_lX6OTdwbHkH4Z2-7TBA7eCSVMqY/edit)
    - KM: Lighthouse and Spinnaker presentations are scheduled for July 9 and July 23.
    - EB: Argo Events and Argo Workflow are the other Argo projects which may be interesting to have presentations on.
    - EB: Argo terms could be included in the vocabulary 

#### Action Items
  - Fatih to move Roadmap to GitHub via a PR
  - Tracy to take SIG Roadmap document into read-only/comment-only mode
  - Kara to update workstream governance with the process for creation of new workstreams
  - **In progress**: Fatih to talk to Dan Lopez to update the invitation with HackMD link: [Issue created in CDF Foundation backlog](https://github.com/cdfoundation/foundation/issues/201).
  - **In progress**: Fatih/Kara to check with Dan Lopez and Jacque the possibility of storing none-meeting recordings on Youtube: [Issue created in CDF Foundation backlog](https://github.com/cdfoundation/foundation/issues/202).
  - ~~Everyone to review the roadmap and provide feedback as to whether it is ready to be added to GitHub.~~
  - ~~Kara to start the document on SIG governance, esp workstreams.~~ 
  - Chun to reach out to Brandon from Drone community for go-scm library
  - ~~Tracy and Kara to invite Andrew Bayer, Christie Wilson, and James Rawlings to discuss go-scm~~
  - ~~Tracy to reach out to Spinnaker folks - Kara invited representative from Spinnaker community~~

#### Meeting Recording
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hjhttOywNIE

### June 11, 2020

#### Participants
  - Andreas Grimmer (Dynatrace)
  - Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)
  - Max K√∂rb√§cher (Storm Reply)
  - Kara de la Marck (CloudBees)
  - Christie Wilson (Google) (first half only üôè)
  - Emil B√§ckmark (Ericsson)
  - Alejandro Andreu (N26)
  - Thanh Ha (Lumina Networks)
  - Danny Thomson (Intuit)
  - Vaidik Kapoor (Grofers)
  - Ramin Akhbari (eBay)

#### Agenda and Notes
  - Action Item Review, All
  - Way forward with [SIG Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QSzcV-rl3XwkNh4_5a_0YCugF5gprtBR-xRlzuEJ-NA/edit#heading=h.eqpoxxy8gmzz), All
      - FD: Should we move the current version to the repo, review, and approve it as the first version?
      - FD: The topic will be discussed again coming weeks
  - Way of working with focus areas (workstream, eg.), All
      - FD: Could be taken out of Roadmap and documented in the repo as part of SIG Governance
      - KM: Can start the document.
  - Reusable Libraries, Tracy Miranda, Chun-Hung Hsiao
      - CW: go-scm is a go library lets you interact with SCM in an easier way. Tekton used go-scm to interact with SCM.
      - CW: Jenkins X also uses it but on a fork so there are 2 versions of it (Tekton uses this fork).
      - CW: Reached out to Drone folks about it but not much feedback. (https://discourse.drone.io/t/go-scm-jenkins-x-tekton-and-cdf/6698)
      - EB: Is there shared/common vocabulary defined in this library?
      - CW: Definitely there is and the terminology can be extracted from it.
          - I think this is the interface that go-scm defines: https://github.com/jenkins-x/go-scm/blob/ece1d8bc9314201c3a29d9b042e209e40bdcec89/scm/client.go#L83-L117 (go-scm could definitely use some more docs - have to point at the code to show you the interface)
      - KM: Andrew Bayer can do a presentation on it, from Jenkins X point of view, and on [Lighthouse](https://github.com/jenkins-x/lighthouse). 
  - Events in CI/CD, Emil B√§ckmark, Andreas Grimmer, Ravi Lachhman, Ramin Akhbari
      - EB: The workstream was initiated and the first meeting happened on June 8. Emil, Andreas, Ramin, Ravi, and Emelie started talking about what the workstream is about.
      - EB: The proposed name "Event Driven CI/CD" feels a bit restrictive so we renamed it to "Events in CI/CD" in order not to restrict ourselves at this phase.
      - EB: Discussed the terminology such as "what is event" and so on
      - EB: Minutes are added to sig-interoperability repository and available on [HackMD](https://hackmd.io/QijjoIAiSeCNhaLpXhr05w).
      - RA: The meeting recordings could be put on non-personal channel. 
      - EB: Not sure how valuable it is to put it on Youtube.
      - AG: Agreed with question of value of having the recordings on YouTube
      - CW: Good to have recordings for those who can't attend. Could use a Google Drive.
      - Other possibility is to have second YT channel.
  - [WG/SIG CI Robots](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/issues/77) proposal to be discussed, Max K√∂rb√§cher
      - MK: Use of robots in pipelines quite common, eg Robot Framework, CI/CD testing framework. 
      - MK: These robots are often focused on interfacing with humans (ChatOps)
      - MK: Would be good to explore how these tools can be interchanged
      - AG: Would be great to have this initiative join SIG "Events in CI/CD" workstream. Invitation to join the SIG
      - MK: That would be good.
      - FD: As the proposal to create the WG/SIG CI Robots was made to the TOC, this invitation needs to be recorded on that proposal. 
  - Presentation on [Argo Rollouts](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-rollouts/) by Danny Thomson from the Argo Team
      - How does this differ from native Kubernetes capabilities?
      - DT: Deployment object provides ability to do rolling updates, but not blue/green deployments, canary deployments, etc
      - AG: GitOps friendly? Persist state of Argo Rollout in GH? 
      - DT: what is stored in git repo is analysis template. That is blueprint stored in git while analysis runs as an instantiation of that template.
      - AG: duration for rollouts can be limited by external factors such as time of day, number of users at that tim, etc.
      - DT: in template can set benchmarks that need to be met in the analysis prior to promotions
      - AA: motivation for creating Argo Rollouts (given Flagger).
      - DT: 1) work started soon after Flagger released, so wasn't on their map yet 2) Argo Rollouts initially focused on blue/green use case. 3) differnces in approaches
 

#### Action Items
  - Fatih to talk to Dan Lopez to update the invitation with HackMD link
  - Everyone to review the roadmap and provide feedback as to whether it is ready to be added to GitHub.
  - Kara to start the document on SIG governance, esp workstreams. 
  - Fatih/Kara to check with Dan Lopez and Jacque the possibility of storing none-meeting recordings on Youtube
  - Chun to reach out to Brandon from Drone community for go-scm library
  - Tracy and Kara to invite Andy Bayer, Christie Wilson, and James Rawlings to discuss go-scm
  - ~~Andreas to reach out to Argo folks~~
  - Tracy to reach out to Spinnaker folks

#### Meeting Recording
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZMfoGg2BM2E

### May 28, 2020

#### Participants
  - Ramin Akhbari (eBay)
  - Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)
  - Ravi Lachhman (Harness)
  - Emil B√§ckmark (Ericsson)
  - Kara de la Marck (CloudBees)
  - Chun-Hung Hsiao (D2iQ)
  - Tracy Miranda (CloudBees)
  - Jerop Kipruto (Google)
  - Andreas Grimmer (Dynatrace)
  - Jeremy Stanley (OpenDev)
  - Jacqueline Salinas (LF/CDF)

#### Agenda and Notes
  - Action Item Review, All
  - SIG Co-chair, All
      - FD: [Nomination period started](https://lists.cd.foundation/g/sig-interoperability/message/38) on 2020-05-19 and ended on 2020-05-28.
      - FD: Kara de la Marck was [nominated by](https://lists.cd.foundation/g/sig-interoperability/message/40) Tracy Miranda as SIG co-chair and she [accepted](https://lists.cd.foundation/g/sig-interoperability/message/43) the nomination.
      - FD: Kara is the new co-chair for the SIG.
      - Kara introduces herself.
  - New Member Introduction
      - Chun from D2IQ
      - Jerop from Google from Tekton Community
      - Ravi from Harness
  - [Proposed focus areas in SIG Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QSzcV-rl3XwkNh4_5a_0YCugF5gprtBR-xRlzuEJ-NA/edit#heading=h.bb9yec6zfdei), All
      - FD: The areas proposed on the document has been discussed.
      - FD: The 2 of them, reusable libraries and event driven CI/CD, got interest from the meeting participants.
      - FD: The people who shown interest to these areas could perhaps start talking about how to move this forward and SIG could then take another discussion on the proposed way forward.
      - FD: Please see the [meeting recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z-Ihwminsc0) for the discussion.
  - Interoperability Summit
      - TM: To bring representatives from various projects to discuss topics. Reach out to Dan Lorenc for more details.
  - Topics for upcoming meetings
      - TM: Do we need more outreach?
      - Spinnaker?
      - Harness presentation/demo from Ravi
      - Argo presentation/demo
      - Tekton based platforms?
      - GitHub?
  - Interoperability Podcast
      - JS: Published - 101 downloads - [Podcast](https://cdeliveryfdn.buzzsprout.com/1008697/3778943-cdf-sig-interoperability-chair-cloudbees-puppet-discuss-interoperability)
      - JS: Followup podcasts - anyone interested to take part in the podcast, please reach out to Jacque

#### Action Items
  - Chun to reach out to Brandon from Drone community for go-scm library
  - Tracy to invite Andy Bayer, Christie Wilson, and James Rawlings to discuss go-scm
  - Andreas to reach out to Argo folks
  - Tracy to reach out to Spinnaker folks

#### Meeting Recording
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z-Ihwminsc0

### May 14, 2020

#### Participants
  - Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
  - Emelie Pettersson, Ericsson
  - Kara de la Marck, CloudBees
  - James Rawlings, CloudBees
  - Christie Wilson, Google
  - Vincent Demeester, Red Hat
  - Tracy Miranda, CloudBees
  - Eric Sorenson, Puppet
  - Ramin Akhbari (eBay)
  - Manuel Stein
  - Jack Morgan
  - Jeremy Stanley, OpenDev

#### Agenda and Notes
  - Action Item Review, All
  - SIG Co-chair, All
      - CW: I was excited to contribute as co-chair the SIG but I don't think I will have time to do that.
      - Agree: Nomination period will start on 2020-05-15 on the SIG Maillist
  - [SIG Update to TOC](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/169XI0xHzltPJfGI4ZBSoZ1-y0DLabe8uKueDbsW9f8E/edit?usp=sharing), All
      - TM: The update was well received by the TOC.
  - SIG Outreach
      - TM: [CDF Interoperability Newsletter](https://cd.foundation/stay-connected/newsletter-archive/) went out. 4 articles, including the shared vocabulary article was published.  
      - TM: Highlighted at CDF member meeting.
      - TM: The theme for the June issue of the newsletter is MLOps.
  - [SIG Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QSzcV-rl3XwkNh4_5a_0YCugF5gprtBR-xRlzuEJ-NA/edit#heading=h.8ve85us1mswx), All
      - FD: A new chapter, Focus Areas, has been added, listing few uses cases based on the discussions taken during the past meeetings and from project & end user presentations.
      - FD: In addition to use cases, some areas to focus also proposed together with possible way to work on them by creating a workstream per area.
      - FD: A discussion will be kicked off on maillist to see if the areas proposed on the roadmap make sense and identify what other areas we could focus on.
      - RA: One of the challenges we see is the quality gates in the pipelines.
  - Presentation on Tekton Catalog + Tekton Hub, Christie Wilson + Vincent Demeester üëº
  - SIG Meeting Recordings
      - FD: All the meeting recordings (except the very first one) is available on CDF Youtube Channel.
      - FD: See [SIG Interoperability Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2KXbZ9-EY9QxICOnONBFPn_cYfJ8BsaG) for the list of recordings.

#### Action Items
  - Kick of co-chair nominations on SIG Maillist, Fatih Degirmenci
  - Start the discussion around SIG Roadmap on Maillist

#### Meeting Recording
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pgEqYfT4whg

### April 30, 2020

#### Participants
  - Emil B√§ckmark, Ericsson
  - Emelie Pettersson, Ericsson
  - Max K√∂rb√§cher, Storm Reply
  - Stefan Prodan, Weaveworks
  - James Rawlings, CloudBees
  - Tracy Miranda, CloudBees
  - Ramin Akhbari (eBay)
  - Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
  - Kara de la Marck, CloudBees
  - Jack Morgan
  - Ignacio Pascual, Ericsson


#### Agenda and Notes
  - Action Item Review, All
      - FD: No action item.
  - [CDF Newsletter](https://github.com/cdfoundation/newsletter) May Issue, Tracy Miranda
      - TM: CDF Newsletter is scheduled to go out soon - today or tomorrow
      - TM: Thanks to everyone who submitted articles to the newsletter
      - TM: Please subscribe to the newsletter if you haven't done it yet and share it with your contacts
      - TM: Podcast will be published coming weeks on the topic of Interoperability.
      - TM: [Sign up for newsletter](https://cd.foundation/stay-connected/)
  - [SIG Update to TOC](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/169XI0xHzltPJfGI4ZBSoZ1-y0DLabe8uKueDbsW9f8E/edit?usp=sharing), All
      - FD: The update to the CDF TOC will be given during the meeting on May 5th which starts at 16:00UtC. The agenda/logistics are available [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uBHar55fTInWF9Li4t0lyG3tTC8BRLU0FfBfsgk_Jrs/edit?ts=5c9580be#heading=h.9z0srzj4rtji).
  - Discussion on proposed [SIG/WG CI Robots](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/issues/77), Max Korbi, All
      - MK: Noticed some challenges when integrating various tools/projects together.
      - MK: Everyhing that happens before CI/CD starts but on the technical level there is too much to be visible to everyone. Some auidences may not be familiar with the technical details of CI/CD and it is important to make this visible to thhose people as well.
      - MK: Three tools are mentioned - [PRobot](https://github.com/probot/probot), [Robot Framework](https://robotframework.org/) even though it is a test framework, and GitHub Bot which is an alternative, being a kind of communication interface between the pipelines and users.
      - JR: Jenkins X has automation around approving PRs, etc. using Lighthouse. When one repo changes, it is necessary to keep things in sync especially towards downstream repos.
      - MK: It is really about bridging the gap between human and the technical part of the deployment.
      - JR: ChatOps. Having ability to control and being able to extend in order to add custom controls. Related to developer experience, helping them due to having consistent way to interact with the pipelines. This is more and more important in microservices world.
      - TM: It points the need for clarity for the users.
      - RA: What is the proposal? Is it to create a standard interface for all the existing and future tools to adhere to?
      - MK: It could be one of the outcomes and there is not much available in the market. It is not utilized well and there is still quite big gap.
      - MK: SIG may be big to start with so it could be a WG to identify what we are going to work with. We will identify if this WG has any value or not during the process.
      - RA: Trying to understand what is the gap. For example Robot framework already has a protocol and interfaces of doing things, and also have libraries so what the work would be for SIG/WG to do.
      - MK: This could be one of the outcome of the work proposed SIG/WG does. It would be interesting to understand to see how the integration between Robot & Prow with Github and so on. It may be difficult to adapt these to your own tools and pipelines. It's not yet a field with many options/tools around so we are at the phase to identify it.
      - TM: One way to approach this is to break tasks down. Everybody understtands one set of tools but not all and we can identify what tool is doing what and how these tools could operate and so on. Will look at the roadmap to see where this could be put under.
      - AP to all: Look at the roadmap to see if this fits under Next section in [Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QSzcV-rl3XwkNh4_5a_0YCugF5gprtBR-xRlzuEJ-NA/edit#heading=h.8ve85us1mswx)
  - [Flagger](https://flagger.app/) Presentation, Stefan Prodan, Weave Works
      - FD: Slides will be available in [CDF Presentations repository sig-interoperability folder](https://github.com/cdfoundation/presentations/tree/master/sig-interoperability).

#### Meeting Recording
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CAU7-qbNZo0

### April 16, 2020

#### Participants
  - Eric Sorenson (Puppet)
  - Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)
  - Emelie Pettersson (Ericsson)
  - Andreas Grimmer (Dynatrace)
  - Tracy Miranda (CloudBees)
  - Ramin Akhbari (eBay)

#### Agenda and Notes
  - Action Item Review, All
  - Hackmd.io migration for meeting agenda and minutes, All
    - FD: Integration with GitHub - single source of truth
    - FD: Collaborative editing
    - TM: Used it and it seems to be straightforward.
    - Agree: Meeting minutes will be moved to HackMD.io from the meeting on 2020-04-30 and onwards
  - CDF Newsletter, All
    - TM: Newsletter will go out end of April 30
    - TM: Few article proposals have been received on Tekton, Jenkins X, SIG Vocabulary, Jenkins and Spinnaker Integration
    - TM: Newsletter is open to contributions from anyone.
    - TM: Jacqueline is looking for a panel and there may be a virtual session.
  - SIG Interoperability Roadmap, All
    - TM: The document outlines the charter
    - AG: End users could be software engineers, managers and so on. What kind of tools they use and the types of requirements the different audiences have.
    - AG: In order to identify the interfaces, it is important to understand common tasks first - deployment, testing, release, and so on. This could help us to identify the interfaces.
    - Discussion on how to highlight, share, and reach to a shared vocabulary in CI/CD domain. Reaching out to projects, experts, bringing this to CDF TOC‚Äôs attention.

#### Meeting Recording
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7LNYbQBrtvY
  
### April 2, 2020

#### Participants
  - Ramin Akhbari (eBay)
  - Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
  - Andreas Grimmer (Dynatrace)
  - James Rawlings (CloudBees)
  - Eric Sorenson (Puppet)
  - Emil B√§ckmark, Ericsson
  - Tracy Miranda, CloudBees
  - Jacqueline Salinas, LF/CDF
  - Minoru Nitta
  - Jack Morgan
  - Emelie Pettersson, Ericsson

#### Agenda and Notes
 - Action Item Review, All
    - FD - reached out to Spinnaker/Armory to get representation, hasn't gotten response
    - TM - will ask Rosalind next week. Could do shout-out at next TOC to see if there are additional folks who would like to join.
    - AG - Sumit Nagal from Argo/Intuit
    - All - open PR on vocabulary addition from Keptn, review and merge
    - SIG Interoperability Roadmap, All
    - TM: Folks started contributing. The doc started to take shape. Everyone is welcomed to provide feedback, put comments, new suggestions. The document can later be moved to GitHub repo.
    - ES: Is there a target date to finish the initial work?
    - TM: Would be good to get the first working version ready during next month.
    - CDF Newsletter: Interoperability Theme for April, Tracy M
    - TM: A lot of things are happening in CDF Outreach Committee and one of the ideas is to drive specific topics. April topic is Interoperability. In terms of the newsletter is to curate articles on interoperability and articles from Eric & Andreas are under the radar. Articles on how Tekton works with Jenkins X, how Spinnaker works with Jenkins, etc. If anyone has interest in writing an article for the newsletter, reach out to Tracy. They will be reviewed by Outreach Committee.
    - TM: Coming months have topics on MLOps, Security.
    - Jaque Salinas: about 866 people currently subscribed.
    - ES: The article was about on the latest changes in Tekton, triggers and so on.
    - Andreas article here: https://medium.com/keptn/scaling-continuous-delivery-and-runbook-automation-via-tool-interoperability-interfaces-5ded97eceb3b
    - Eric part1: https://medium.com/relay-sh/whats-going-on-with-tekton-part-1-9c3e006d39fc , part 2: https://medium.com/relay-sh/whats-going-on-with-tekton-part-2-ab39176c9c45
  - Jenkins X Presentation, James Rawlings, CloudBees (See video)

#### Meeting Recording
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8S98BUZQKRM

### March 19, 2020

- **Participants**
  - Ramin Akhbari (eBay)
  - Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
  - Andreas Grimmer, Dynatrace
  - Emelie Pettersson, Ericsson
  - Jeremy Stanley, OpenDev
  - Eric Sorenson, Puppet
  - Terry Cox, Bootstrap
  - Andrew Bayer, CloudBees
  - Tracy Miranda, CloudBees
  - Emil B√§ckmark, Ericsson (last half hour only)

- **Agenda and Notes**
  - SIG Interoperability Roadmap, Tracy Miranda, CloudBees
    - TM: WIP/Draft Roadmap: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QSzcV-rl3XwkNh4_5a_0YCugF5gprtBR-xRlzuEJ-NA/edit?usp=sharing
    - TM: Best practices for the roadmap for groups like this is not to focus on specific dates but use time horizon.
    - TM: Charter for the SIG is summarized in the document.
    - TM: Some of the outcomes are knowledge transfer of CI/CD tools, the terminology, end user requirements and keeping them in mind, shared reference terminology to enable people communicate with each other, interoperable tools, standardized frameworks, promoting best practices
    - TM: Time horizons in the document are current, near term, and future.
    - TM: Some of the topics for each of these are listed there as an input.
    - RA: Are Spinnaker and Codefresh represented in the SIG since they are gathering different use cases from the industry and can provide a lot of input to the SIG.
    - FD: Unfortunately not.
    - TM: Feel free to contribute!
  - Next steps with the vocabulary, All
    - FD: Should we try to come up with something like ‚Äúshared vocabulary‚Äù as it was intended originally?
    - TM: CDF Outreach Committee started working on different posts on various areas and this could be something to get the word out.
  - Do we want to have any kind of facilitator rotation? Christie Wilson, Google
    - ES: I can help out with this.
  - Zuul Presentation, Jeremy Stanley, OpenDev
    - JS: Slides: http://fungi.yuggoth.org/presentations/2020-cdf/slides.html

- **Action Items**
  - Reach out to Spinnaker (Netflix/Armory) and Codefresh and invite them, Fatih Degirmenci

#### Meeting Recording
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TLgcjYe_joM

### March 5, 2020

- **Participants**
  - Andrew Bayer, CloudBees
  - James Rawlings CloudBees
  - Emil B√§ckmark, Ericsson
  - Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
  - Ethan Jones, CloudBees
  - Andreas Grimmer, Dynatrace
  - Ramin Akhbari (eBay)
  - Terry Cox, Bootstrap
  - Jeremy Hartley, CloudBees
  - Christie Wilson, Google
  - David Blaisonneau, Orange
  - Minoru Nitta
  - Tracy Miranda, CloudBees
  - Jeremy Stanley, OpenDev

- **Agenda and Notes**
  - Action Item Review, All
  - SIG Interoperability Roadmap, Tracy Miranda, CloudBees
    - FD: Postponed to the next meeting.
  - Google Summer of Code, All
    - FD: CDF is taking part in [Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/organizations/5550056498790400/)
      If anyone has a project idea, please reach out to Dan Lopez and Jacqueline Salinas to find out how you can get your project part of GSoC.
  - [Keptn](https://keptn.sh/), Andreas Grimmer, Dynatrace
    - FD: Meeting is recorded and it will be published on CDF Youtube Channel.
    - FD: Presentation will be stored in [cdf presentations repository sig-interoperability folder](https://github.com/cdfoundation/presentations/tree/master/sig-interoperability)
  - GitLab Pipelines, David Blaisonneau, Orange
    - FD: Meeting is recorded and it will be published on CDF Youtube Channel.
    - FD: Presentation will be stored in [cdf presentations repository sig-interoperability folder](https://github.com/cdfoundation/presentations/tree/master/sig-interoperability)

- **Action Items**
  - Store Keptn presentation in cdf/presentations repository sig-interoperability folder, Andreas Grimmer, Dynatrace
  - DONE: Store Orange Gitlab Pipelines presentation in cdf/presentations repository sig-interoperability folder, David Blaisonneau, Orange

#### Meeting Recording
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cREQjs5hDLY

### February 20, 2020

- **Participants**
  - Jason Yavorska, GitLab
  - Emelie Pettersson, Ericsson
  - Ramin Akhbari, eBay
  - Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
  - Kara de la Marck, CloudBees
  - Christie Wilson, Google
  - Tracy Miranda, CloudBees
  - Jeremy Hartley, CloudBees
  - Orit Golowinski, GitLab
  - Ignacio Pascual, Ericsson

- **Agenda and Notes**
  - SIG Interoperability Co-chairs
    - FD: Nomination period ended on February 10th and 2 people were nominated by others  - Christie Wilson and Wavell Watson.
    - FD: Christie Wilson accepted the nomination but Wavell Watson didn‚Äôt by the time the nomination ended so Christie Wilson becomes the new co-chair.
  - [Common vocabulary/terminology](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/pull/14)
    - TM: We can merge the document as is and ask people to contribute it by issuing new PRs
    - TM: A blog post can be published to promote the vocabulary/terminology
  - [Starting the work on SIG Goals, Roadmap](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/issues/15)
    - FD: Looking for contributors
    - CW: One way this could go is that this SIG could work on creating standards.Another idea about the SIG is to keep track of what‚Äôs happening in industry.
    - TM: Roadmap is important to identify low hanging fruits to get momentum, get more people, starting to tackle some challenges
    - CW: We could start highlighting some tools that are currently interoperate and highlighting some challenges to make sure people know why this topic is important.
    - TM: Initial categories, the way to deal with them. Rather than laying out that we will do this or that in specific time, we could focus on what we are doing now,
      what we will focus next so people can start contributing to those ideas. Will take first stab.
  - Discussion around [standardization of container-based step execution](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1geL8hMN3Qy5C7lJTb6MUCPquDzwsU022eRUr4nGdI44/edit)
    Jason Yavorska, GitLab
    - Also look at CircleCI orbs, Github Actions e.g. how do we run sth from github actions in Tekton
    - CW: [Tekton Notifications Proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ehhGngn2ulnjYX0HUxSyhQGAvcbabSa27UZs3RvZWwU/edit)
    - CW: This might take Christie a bit to figure out how to share the document but in the meantime if you join the tekton-dev@ mailing list you‚Äôll get access right away!
    - CW: Tekton docs: https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/tree/master/docs#tekton-pipelines
    - CW: Tekton task docs: https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/blob/master/docs/tasks.md
    - FD: Please see the meeting recording for the discussion.
  - KubeCon Amsterdam
    - TM: Who is going? There will be discussions around common metadata to describe deployments.
    - FD: It might be a good idea to send mail to CDF SIG and/or TOC maillists to let people know about the discussions during KubeCon.
    - CW: CD Summit will happen as day-zero event on March 30.
    - CW: [CD Summit Schedule](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/continuous-delivery-summit/program/schedule/)
  - Tekton Presentation & Discussion, Christie Wilson, Google
    - FD: Presentation will be stored in CDF presentations repo sig-interoperability folder on GitHub and recording will be posted to CDF Youtube channel.
    - CW: https://github.com/tektoncd/community#want-to-get-involved
    - FD: Presentation is available on [this link](https://github.com/cdfoundation/presentations/tree/master/sig-interoperability).

- **Action Items**
  - Take the first stab on Roadmap, Tracy Miranda
  - Provide basic examples for GitHub Actions and CircleCI Orbs, Jason Yavorska
  - Tekton Notifications Proposal is not public, Christie Wilson
  - DONE: Upload presentation to CDF presentations repo sig-interoperability folder on GitHub, Christie Wilson
  - DONE: Schedule a presentation from Jenkins X - presentation schedule is here, Tracy Miranda, Jeremy Harley

#### Meeting Recording
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0RZikpCG-6k
  
### February 6, 2020

- **Participants**
  - Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
  - Emil B√§ckmark, Ericsson
  - Emelie Pettersson, Ericsson
  - Terry Cox, Bootstrap
  - Jeremy Stanley, OpenDev/Zuul
  - Ramin Akhbari, ebay
  - Christie Wilson, Google
  - Tracy Miranda, Cloudbees
  - Dan Lopez, Linux Foundation

- **Agenda and Notes**
  - Action Item Review
    - FD: All action items are closed.
  - Co-chair nomination and election
    - FD: Christie Wilson and Wavell Watson have been nominated
    - FD: Co-chair nominations open until February 10
    - DLz: We don‚Äôt have to have a charter but good to adapt one.
    - DLz: Some CNCF SIGs have their own charters. https://github.com/cncf/sig-security/blob/master/governance/charter.md
    - FD + CW: Goals: Define interoperability
    - TM: ml-ops approach is good, initial roadmap, taking time to define what areas they can tackle: divide up topics, map them up
  - CD Summit Europe 2020
    - FD: CFP closes on February 7
    - FD: Event takes place on March 30
    - CW: CFPs will be reviewed by the programming committee. Program chairs will be putting the final schedule.
      The notifications will be sent out February 17th and the program will be announced after that. Lightning talks are also possible.
    - CW: Registration is open for CD Summit.
  - Work on common vocabulary/terminology
    - FD: PR is up for [review](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/pull/14)
  - Presentation Template
    - DLz: CDF has a presentation template for the community to use.
    - DLz: https://github.com/cdfoundation/presentations/tree/master/templates
  - Eiffel Presentation and Discussion, Emil B√§ckmark, Ericsson
    - FD: Eiffel presentation by Emil to SIG.
      Recording: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=thr8-duWvt0
      Slides: https://github.com/cdfoundation/presentations/tree/master/sig-interoperability

- **Action Items**
  - N/A

#### Meeting Recording
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=thr8-duWvt0
  
### January 23, 2020

- **Participants**
  - Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
  - James Rawlings, CloudBees
  - Akin Ozer, Inveon
  - Emil B√§ckmark, Ericsson
  - Terry Cox, Bootstrap
  - Eric Sorenson, Puppet
  - Dan Lopez, Linux Foundation
  - Emelie Pettersson, Ericsson
  - Tracy Miranda, Cloudbees
  - Wavell Watson, Vulk Coop/CNCF CI/CNF Testbed
  - Jeremy Stanley, OpenDev/Zuul
  - Joshua Smith, Vulk Coop/CNCF

- **Agenda and Notes**
  - Recording of meetings
    - FD: Question to all: Is everyone ok to record meetings?
    - FD: Agreed: Everyone is OK! We urge people to raise concerns if they have
      any so we stop recordings.
  - Intros
    - FD: Meeting participants introduced themselves and shared their thoughts
      regarding SIG.
  - Meeting Logistics
    - FD: Survey to determine meeting frequency/time: 10 total votes.
    - FD: Meeting frequency: 1 vote for weekly, 9 votes for bi-weekly
    - FD: Meeting time: There was a tie between 15:00-16:00UTC and 17:00-18:00UTC.
      FD opted for 15:00-16:00UTC to increase the possibility of participation
      from APAC.
    - FD: Question to all: Should we stick to UTC for meeting times?
    - FD: Summer time starts in few weeks. (US@March 8th, Europe@March 29th)
      The question was if we should stick to UTC and do not change the meeting
      time based on summer time changes or not.
    - FD: Agreed: The agreement is to stick to UTC.
  - Meeting agenda/notes
    - FD: Google Docs (this document) as working copy
    - FD: Github as the final location
    - FD: Meeting agenda and notes are kept in both places to ensure everyone
      can access those.
    - TM: hackmd.io is used by some communities and could be something we can
      look into for keeping meeting agenda and notes.
  - Invitation to join to maillist and Slack channel
    - FD: Crossposting to maillists is not considered as a good practice by
      some communities and we intend to stop doing that so we urge everyone
      to join to sig-interoperability maillist in order not to miss announcements,
      discussions, meeting information.
    - FD: Please join to #sig-interoperability channel on CDF Slack.
  - SIG Governance & Process
    - FD: Proposal is to have TOC document governance for the SIGs and we adapt it.
      See [the corresponding issue](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/issues/70)
      in TOC repo.
    - Adapting co-chair setup
      - FD: Question to all: Should we adapt co-chair setup that seems to be a
        common practice within CDF and CNCF SIGs?
      - FD: Agreed: Everyone is in agreement to have co-chair adapted.
      - FD: 2 additional co-chairs - 1 from projects and 1 from users to have
        different views represented.
      - TM: nominates Christie Wilson as co-chair.
      - TM: let‚Äôs give people time to think
      - JoshuaS: nominates Wavell Watson as co-chair.
    - FD: will send a mail to maillist/slack to summarize the governance discussion
      and agreement on adapting co-chair.
    - FD: will send a separate mail to start co-chair nominations.
    - Election of and terms of chair(s)
      - FD: suggestion is to have 2-year term but the question will be included
      in the mail that will be sent to SIG maillist.
  - Members of sig-interoperability team/repo
    - FD: Question to all: Who should/wants to be maintainer to sig-interoperability
    repo reviewing/merging PRs?
    - FD: Agreed: We start with the people listed as members in README.md.
  - How new-members could sign-up?
    - FD: For SIGs, the practice is to let people self-declare their interest and
    list themselves in members list if they would like to.
    - ES: Suggests to try to keep things simple which everyone agrees.
  - Upcoming presentations from users and projects
    - FD: We started inviting users/project maintainers to SIG meetings to present
    the challenges they face, the ideas they have, and the solutions they employed
    in order to increase collaboration. This will give us have chance to see and
    listen different perspectives.
    - FD: This will also make the existing work going on within interoperability
    area across projects visible.
    - FD: presentation backlog/schedule is on https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Owg_I52WEXzqF8g_lX6OTdwbHkH4Z2-7TBA7eCSVMqY/edit#
    - TM: We can invite ebay, CDF projects
  - Discussion around our vision and objectives as SIG
    - FD: README file has few points. We can perhaps make our vision and objectives
    more explicit.
  - What interoperability means in CI/CD domain?
    - FD: People have different views when it comes to interoperability
    - JR: benefits of working with various communities are huge - standardization
    and so on. Having a way to come together to start talking about interoperability
    is great.
    - FD: pipeline standardization, event driven CI/CD, pipeline language
    - JR: Tekton and Jenkins X specifications. Jenkins X created a syntax familiar
    for Jenkins users which also works for Tekton. Consistent way.
    - ES: have been looking for the opportunities with regards to interoperability
    on an individual unit level.
    - ES: Standardized declarative metadata e.g. to describe deployments
    - ES: https://docs.google.com/document/d/16e1xo1C35wBEe1skxnkgm2edGaxErhDoiN-jtIZkZM8/edit#
    - EB: look for possibilities in broader take on standardization
    - FD: being agnostic to the product is something to think about
    - WW: focusing on benefits such as: how to figure out the changes happening
    elsewhere which impacts you.
    - TC: AI/ML work done is highly regulated and CI/CD process is needed.
    Standardization/unification would be beneficial.
    - JS: There are some fundamental ideas to work with. Zuul has speculative
    execution and processes and it has pipelines. Events are used for triggering
    pipelines. Standard glossary/dictionary is needed. We need a language for humans
    to communicate first before we tackle with the tools. It would be good to see
    what people are actually dealing with.

- **Action Items**
  - ~~Join to maillist and Slack channel, All~~
  - ~~Summarize governance discussion on maillist and ask for feedback, Fatih Degirmenci~~
  - ~~Start nominations for co-chair, Fatih Degirmenci~~
  - ~~Add members listed in README.md as maintainers to sig-interoperability Github repository, Fatih Degirmenci~~
  - ~~Help us get in touch with ebay and CDF projects so we can invite them for presenting to SIG, Tracy Miranda~~

#### Meeting Recording
  - N/A
